---
description: 1st Person Shooter Project
---

# 1.1 Problem Identification

For my project, I will be creating a 1st person shooting game. This genre was created in the early 90s with games like Doom and Wolfenstein and has remained popular through to this day.

The basic mechanics are that you have an inventory of weapons, some that fire projectiles, some that are for close range combat \(melee\). You are usually tasked with traversing a 3D environment, killing enemies along the way. The weapons may require ammunition which can be collected from enemies or the environment. There are usually other pickups that bolster your health and armour. If your health reaches zero you die, and have to restart either the level, or from a checkpoint.

As the name suggests, the game is played in the first person, with the player usually able to see their own gun and sometimes hands. Different games might animate this differently, going for more realism in the handling of weapons, others prioritise the action.

The genre has evolved over the years to include more sophisticated environments and pickups. There are now several identifiable sub-genres which have borrowed structural elements from other games. Such as

* Looter Shooters - The core gameplay loop involves picking up ever more dangerous weaponry
  * Destiny
* Open World Shooter - The world is one large seamless map with objectives scattered around
  * Far Cry
* Level Based Arcade Shooter - Levels are discrete maps with an identifiable start and end, lends itself to high score tables for individual levels.
  * Doom

Shooting games by their very nature are targeted towards older audiences, with debate over the impact they can have on aggressive behaviour being a recurring theme. They are usually highly skill based and require fairly sophisticated and precise controls. In terms of control schemes, there are two broad categories

* PC - Mouse + Keyboard using WASD for movement, and mouse for aiming
* Console - Controller - Twin analogue sticks, triggers for shooting. Other buttons for actions/jumping etc.

There are mobile games that try to replicate this experience, some of them overal controls on the screen, but increasingly people use Bluetooth controllers which is basically the console control system mentioned above.

