# 1.4 Features of the Proposed Solution

## Controls

I will focus on creating a game that works with mouse & keyboard, using WASD for movement and mouse for aiming. I will not include a jump button, but I will use the E key as an interact button. This game will not allow the player to jump, which should allow me to constrain the gameplay and design levels that require some puzzle solving.

## Graphics & Visuals

The focus is on computational complexity, so I will stick to abstract geometric shapes and patterns.

I will use a HUD, but keep the number of HUD elements on screen to a minimum.

I will overlay assistive layers on the game world, for example navigational hints in the form of arrows on the ground.

## Obstacles

Each level will be a maze, incorporating traversal in all directions. There will be dangerous obstacles that require timing to navigate. I will place checkpoints before any particular sequence of obstacles to allow the obstacles to be dangerous \(instant kill\) without the game being frustrating.

## Levels

Levels will be discrete with a specific start and end. There will be collectibles and some concept of tracking how many of the collectables the player has found. Each level will have a specific starting gear, which allows me to tailor the difficulty on a level by level basis, it also makes scoring level attempts a more level playing ground.

### Procedural Generation

Levels will be algorithmically generated, using an element of pseudo-random to create a slightly different experience each time.

